I showed you component DidMount, which is
something that gets run at the end, or
sorry, at the beginning of every
component being rendered, right?
It renders for the first time.
So you can display a bunch of stuff like
a loading state or something like that.
Then you can go fetch all of your data,
and
then you can show all
the data from the API.
So at the top of this,
let's say if this .state.loading.
So if it's loading, what we wanna
do is we wanna say return Loading.
Here you can imagine like hey,
I'm gonna have like this
really nice loading spinner.
It's gonna have like a cute
little puppy doing something or
something like that, right?
That's what you would do here.
In this case, we're gonna be
really lazy and say loading.
Let's go look at our app really quick.
You can see just for a flash of a second,
you see right there that loading.
That's what that does.
So that you immediately show the user
something, hey, we got your request,
we're loading stuff in
the backend right now.
So they feel like okay,
they're listening to me.
Obviously, it's going really fast.
Because it's on my local computer but
like if you're on a slow connection
on a server across the world,
that could be a couple of seconds that
someone's looking at a loading screen.
Which is why we keep track
of this loading here, so
we can always know are we loaded or
are we not?
Are we waiting for data?
The other thing is I only showed
you a componentDidMount, but
there's actually quite
a few life cycle methods.
So I showed you the constructors as well.
This used to be called componentWillMount,
but
now with classes that's the constructor.
We have componentDidMount.
And there's a lot more there's get
derived state from properties, right?
Which is like I have props coming in,
I need to get some sort of
derive state from that.
This is a method that
allows you to do that.
There's one called should component
update, which is like a performance
optimizer where it's like,
hey, these things changed.
Do you wanna update the react component or
you just wanna stay pat?
And you can make that determination here.
You can do componentDidupdate
where like hey, I got new props,
I need to go request more data, right?
So some of these things are with hooks
just become unnecessary to track, but
with class components need to be a little
bit more hooked into the life cycles.
That was a poor choice of wording
hooked into the life cycles.
You need to be more aware of
the life cycles going on with react.
So I'll leave you to peruse
this documentation here.
There's a lot more of these lifecycle
methods for class components.
But for now, I think this is probably
pretty good we can leave it with this.
Our class components,
the only way to get life cycle components.
The answer that is yes, mostly.
And the reason why I say
mostly is because so
let's hop back into our
search params I think
So we have this use effect right
here on line 14 through 16.
This is componentDidMount, right?
This does exactly the same
thing as componentDidMount,
that it runs this immediately
after its first render.
This function is precisely
the same as componentDidMount.
So they're gonna be called different
things and they do work in,
may be subtly different ways, but
functionally they're exactly the same.
But if you actually specifically
wanna use componentDidMount,
you have to use a class component.
But you can use effects to approximate
/basically get all the life cycle methods.
There's only a few that class
components don't handle,
one of them is with error boundaries.
We're about to get to error boundaries,
so I'll talk about that momentarily.
So there's a very very slight few of
things you can only do with class
components but for the most part,
you can do anything with either type.